Title: Food Prepping With Huel
Date: 2018-06-09
Slug: huel-prep
Status: draft
Tags: huel, prepping

If you have been in the tech circles in the last couple of years you will have heard about Soylent, powdered food for techies and folk who don't want the hassle making food. Sadly its not available in the UK (at least without paying shipping and import fees).

I found a couple offerings this side of the pond but none were too satisfactory, shipping delays and other faff being the main issues. Until I stumbled upon Huel. Same idea as Soylent but made in the UK, next day delivery with a reputable courier and 100% RDA of everything.

The "food" is dry powder and comes in plastic foil lined bags which are sealed from the factory. I figure they are ripe for food storage. 1 bag is 14 meals at 500 calories a go. 4 bags is a month of calories, assuming a daily intake of 2000 calories.

Now, I'm not one of those people who are on 100% Huel, I like my real food too much to do that, but I usually have one "meal" for breakfast and depending on what is going on with work, another one or two that day, with a real meal at some point during the day.

I get my Huel deliveries in 4 bags a go, my one or two meals a day means I only consume about 3 bags worth a month. If I get 4 bags every month, then over the course of a year, I can build up 3 months of food. Assuming I can procure potable water, I can basically live without buying food for 3 months.

Now, it is food and does have a shelf life so it will need rotating out. A simple way to keep track of it is to just write the delivery date on the bags I get. The oldest bag gets removed and replaced with 2 fresh bags.
