Title: Backup Strategy
Date: 2019-11-19 07:15
Slug: backups
Tags: backups
Status: draft

We have all lost data at some point. Whether it is an accidental fat fingered `rm -r` or hardware failure or something else, it sucks. Having a decent backup solution helps ease the pain and hassle.

In a previous life, when I used an Apple machine, I had a hard drive set up with Time Machine for local backups and I used Backblaze for off site storage. Now that I am back on a Linux machine, a different approach is used.

The main backups are handled by [rsnapshot](https://rsnapshot.org/) which backs up my home directory to a hard drive that is always plugged in whenever I am connected to my dock. The config file specifices several levels and retention amounts:

* Hourly: 24 backups (assuming the computer is on) per day
* Daily: 7 backups, one for every day of the week
* Weekly: 4 backup to correspond to 4 weeks a month
* Monthly: 12 a year, once a month
* Yearly: just the one

These are kicked off by systemd services and timers. The clever bit is only needing the [one service]({static}/media/scripts/backup@.service) [and timer]({static}/media/scripts/backup@.timer) and using arguments to determine the backup level. Running `systemctl --user enable --now backup@hourly.timer` sets up the hourly backup, `systemctl --user enable --now backup@daily.timer` sets up the daily and so on. The unit files are stored in `~/.config/systemd/user/` so as to not need to mess around with root permissions or setting up another user. I only care about my home directory, if the system itself becomes bad, I can easily blow it away and reinstall then pull from my backups.

The backup drives are many and redundant. The `hotstore` drive I have plugged in all the time, I have 2 `coldstore` drives which are [kept in a Pelican 1200 case](/2019/03/31/backup-day) and I have just provisioned one `offsite` drive, cunningly named for being stored outside of my home so that in the event of a fire or what have you, I at least have a semi-up to date copy of my stuff.

Of course, having data encrypted at rest is always a good idea. All of the drives are set up using [my encryption script]({static}/media/scripts/cryptdrive) which uses some sensible defaults to help protect my data.

Data replication is handled by a script called (funnily enough) [`syncstuff`]({static}/media/scripts/syncstuff) which is basically a wrapper around rsync. Takes a while to do the job but I am happiest with that way of doing it. This also syncs up my documents and mail to the various drives, as well as a [microsd kept on a necklace](https://n-o-d-e.shop/collections/frontpage/products/digital-dogtag) most of the time.
