Title: The first week of December 2015 brought a massive storm to Lancashire and Cumbria,
Date: 2019-02-16 20:00
Slug: no-power
Status: draft
Tags: prepping, resiliency, electricity, micro

causing severe flooding which resulted in a loss of power to 61,000 homes and businesses. The Royal Academy of Engineering [put out a report of the situation](https://www.raeng.org.uk/publications/reports/living-without-electricity) [(mirror)](/misc/2019 raeng living without electricity.pdf) discussing the situation.

> Most homes in the affected area have gas-fired central heating with the control system and circulating pump reliant on electricity, so had no heating. Many homes have all-electric cooking and thus were unable to heat food. There are few high-rise buildings in the city but all lost power for their lifts and some upper floors lost water supplies. After 30 hours without electricity, many households had to throw away at least some of the contents of their freezers.
>
> The biggest impact on most people was that few knew what was happening. By looking out of the window, it was obvious that there was a widespread power cut but none of the usual sources of information – TV, internet, text messages or social media – was working. Although there was FM radio coverage, many people did not have a suitable battery- powered radio and reporters in the area had serious difficulties in communicating with their studios.
>
> Vulnerable groups, including those relying on electrically-powered medical appliances and residents of care homes, were more seriously affected.
